### Homework Assignment ( Data Visualization)

Assignment instructions:

1. Use Google Co-lab or Jupyter or Zeppelin or d3.js – you are free to use any notebook or application that can give interactive visualization.
2. Save your workbook to a Github repository
3. Three most creative interactive visualization of any dataset will get a huge shout-out!

Storytelling and explaining your work to customers/product managers/C-level executives of a company will be an essential skill for a Data Scientists or ML Engineers portfolio. The main goal of this assignment is to develop this skill. 

A variety of digital tools have been designed to help users visually explore data sets and confirm or disconfirm hypotheses about the data. The task in this assignment is to use an existing visualization tool to formulate and answer a series of specific questions about a data set of your choice. After answering the questions, you should create a final visualization that is designed to present the answer to your question to others. You should maintain a digital notebook that documents all the questions you asked and the steps you performed from start to finish. The goal of this assignment is to understand better the process of using visualizations to perform exploratory data analysis. 

#### Step 1. Pick a domain and data set that you are interested in. 

* Select a dataset of greatest interest to you.

#### Step 2. Pose an initial question that you would like to answer. 

* For example: Is there a relationship between melting point and atomic number? Are the brightness and color of stars correlated? Are there different patterns of nucleotides in different regions in human DNA? 

#### Step 3. Assess the fitness of the data for answering your question. 

* Inspect the data–it is invariably helpful to first look at the raw values. Does the data seem appropriate for answering your question? If not, you may need to start the process over. If so, does the data need to be reformatted or cleaned prior to analysis? Perform any steps necessary to get the data into shape prior to visual analysis. 

#### Data Sets 

* [Civic Data Sets for the Pacific Northwest](http://nwdata.org/)
* [An archive of datasets distributed with the R statistical language](https://vincentarelbundock.github.io/Rdatasets/) 
* [30 Places to Find Open Data on the Web](http://blog.visual.ly/data-sources/) – Visual.ly 
* [Office for National Statistics (UK)](http://www.statistics.gov.uk/default.asp) – a repository of detailed statistics about Great Britain and Northern Irland 
* [World Bank Data Catalog ](http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog)
* [CDC NCHS Data](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data_access/data_tools.htm) – CDC’s National Center for Health Statistics Data Access 
* [Machine Learning Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/) – large variety of maintained data sets 

#### Submission Requirements:  

#### Produce a final writeup. Your final submission should include: 

* Your storyboard – that contains why you selected this dataset and what are you trying to achieve. 
* There should be at least 4 types of visualizations of your choice plus a dimensionality reduction visualization.  
* Your visualization should be self-explanatory.  
* Include a pdf/HTML report with the submission. The final report should be short and sweet. If you are using jupyter notebook it is easy.
* The source code for your application. Please ensure that the notebook/applications submitted is in working order. If any special instructions are needed for building or running your application, please include them in the writeup too. 

#### Grading Criteria 

Projects that squarely meet the requirements for the assignment will receive a score of 9 (A). Going beyond the call of duty can net additional points, for example: 

* Three most creative and interactive visualizations will get a shout out. 
* Advanced interaction techniques. 
* Using a neural network to show dimensionality reduction.  
* Multi-view coordination 
* Thoughtful storyboard.  
* Using different interactive visualization tools (for example- d3.js)

Point deductions will be made when projects suffer from: 

* errors or broken features 
* questionable visual encodings 
* confusing interface design or unhelpful interactions 
* lack of exploratory interaction techniques 
* incomplete write-up 

Good luck! – Comment for any doubts.