Final (Data Science Group Project)
You guys are awesome. So far you have learned all the important things that will be required to be an entry level Data Scientist or ML Engineer. But there is something that we Instructors cannot help you with and only you can achieve that goal. – “PRACTISE”. Keep practicing and earn experience. We wish you all success and all the best for your future endeavors.

The following assignment will be a meaningful refresher of everything that you guys have learned so far.

To clear this assignment you need to prove your talent in 5 important features of Data Science.

Data Exploration and Cleaning.
Data Visualization and Storytelling.
Machine learning model building.
Cross-validation and improving ( Feature Engineering and Hyper parameter tuning)
End to End Architecture and Deploying the Machine learning research work in Production.
As a data scientist or AI engineer, one should master all the qualities mentioned above. This assignment will asses your quality based on these 5 points.

Final Assignment instructions:

Use Google Co-lab or Jupyter or Zeppelin or d3.js – you are free to use any notebook or application that can give interactive visualization.
Save your workbook to a Github repository.
Step 1. Pick a domain and data set that you are interested in. 

Select a dataset of greatest interest to you.
Step 2. Explore and Clean the dataset ( Mostly the sample data sets will be very clean, But in real life, data collected will be very crude and missing many chunks in between) So assert that your data is not clean and add few functions to your code that will clean the data. 

Use Pandas profiling or dataframe.describe feature to get a feel of the dataset.  In case if you are trying pyspark (optional)  use this library https://github.com/julioasotodv/spark-df-profiling
Add two functions that can impute missing values in a dataset ( Try at least 2 sampling methods)
Add 3 meaningful visualization that will describe the data for the data scientist to understand.
Step 3. Storytelling. 

Use Colin’s video and directions and his contest to do this part.
If not aligned with Colin’s video. Try to generate a report that will descript your motive to clean the data and what model you are going to create to solve the problem. The report should be of a quality that can be provided to CEO of the company.
Step 4.  ML Model

Create a machine learning model
State why you chose this algorithm for this particular problem.
Did you try other available algorithms? If not why?
Step 5. Cross-Validation & Model Improvement

State which cross-validation type you used ( https://blog.contactsunny.com/data-science/different-types-of-validations-in-machine-learning-cross-validation)
List the possible Feature engineering techniques you used to improve the accuracy of the model.
List the hyperparameter tuning you used and add comments to the code.
Step 6. E2E Architecture. 

Provide an architecture diagram that contains a flow diagram of your data processing and output.
State your ideation for scaling your solution.
Your architecture should contain both batch ( Training/testing the model ) and real-time solution (Deploying your model in production)
Use AWS/ GC / Azure to create a cloud-based solution. (optional)
Example Architecture: ( This is bare metal version and your solution should be more insightful)



Data Sets – You can choose your own dataset for this assignment. 

Civic Data Sets for the Pacific Northwest 
An archive of datasets distributed with the R statistical language 
30 Places to Find Open Data on the Web – Visual.ly 
Office for National Statistics (UK) – a repository of detailed statistics about Great Britain and Northern Irland 
World Bank Data Catalog 
CDC NCHS Data – CDC’s National Center for Health Statistics Data Access 
Machine Learning Repository – large variety of maintained data sets 
Submission Requirements:  

Produce a final assignment package. Your final submission should include: 

Your storyboard – that contains why you selected this dataset and what are you trying to achieve. 
Your visualization should be self-explanatory.  
The source code for your application. Please ensure that the notebook/applications submitted is in working order. If any special instructions are needed for building or running your application, please include them in the writeup too. 
If you are using Pyspark it will give you extra credits.
If you are explaining the architecture with real-time cloud solution you will get extra credits.
Grading Criteria 

Projects that squarely meet the requirements for the assignment will receive a score of 9 (A). Going beyond the call of duty can net additional points, for example: 

Three most creative and interactive visualizations will get a shout out. 
Advanced interaction techniques. 
Using a neural network to show dimensionality reduction.  
Multi-view coordination 
Thoughtful storyboard.  
Using different interactive visualization tools (for example- d3.js)
Point deductions will be made when projects suffer from: 

Errors or broken features. 
Questionable visual encodings. 
Confusing interface design or unhelpful interactions. 
Lack of exploratory interaction techniques.
Incomplete write-up.
Good luck! – Comment/slack for any doubts.